All right so continuing on
with some out of ordinary situations with interfaces.
Let's now look at extending an interface.
So we're going to create a class here
called extend interface example.
All right, so we've got an interface
firstly named extendable that's got a default method
called default method and then an abstract method, extend.
We've got an interface sub extendable that extends
the extendable interface
and we've got a class extend interface example
that implements the sub extendable interface.
It implements extendable extend method
which effectively is required of this class
passing through the sub extendable interface
and our main method instantiate an object of
extend interface example and calls the extend method.
So running this, you can see extendable
default method called.
Now this example wasn't terribly interesting,
except we learnt that you can extend an interface
and that any class that implements the extended interface
must implement all abstract methods of both interfaces.
So carrying this a bit further,
let's add an additional abstract method
on the sub extendable interface.
Void append
and that's obviously in the sub extendable interface.
Now that I've done that,
you see you've got a compiler error
on the extend interface example class,
telling us that we have to declare the method abstract
or implement the abstract method append in sub extendible.
So this demonstrates that adding additional public behaviour
to an interface that is in use
can cause very wide repercussions.
So what I'm going to do to fix this,
I'm going to replace the extend method and at the same time
add the append method to our extend interface example class.
They kind of pasted we've got the
append definition on line 38
and the extend method has been changed
to call both the default method
and the new append method as well.
Running the code.
Compiled is happy and we've got the additional line
appending functionality
now being output to the screen as well.
All right, so let's now look at what happens
if you don't implement a method from an interface.
A Java allows you to make your class abstract
and pass the task of defining the concrete behaviour
to subclasses.
So we're gonna create a new class
in the interface of project
and we're going to call this one abstractable example.
So as you can see the code firstly,
has got an interface called abstractable
with one abstract method make concrete.
We've got an abstract class called abstract class
which implements abstractable
however, it doesn't implement the make concrete method.
Another abstract method is declared in this class
though called call concrete
and moving atom we've got our abstractable example class
that extends the abstract class.
Note that it's not implementing
the abstractable example directly
however, it is required to implement both abstract methods
and you can see we've actually done that.
We're gonna make concrete and call concrete methods
defined in this class.
So if you run this code
you'll see we've got output at the bottom of the screen
so that's not working fine.
We've got the method declared on the abstract class, class
method declared on abstractable interface airport.
So if we scroll up to our definition again
you can see that although we didn't explicitly
implement abstractable,
you can see we're extending the abstract class.
The abstract class, abstract class implements abstractable.
So even though that didn't happen,
we didn't explicitly implement abstractable down here.
In a public class at abstractable example,
you still inherit both the obligations
if abstract class chose not to accept them
and the benefits of the interface through abstract class
which does implement it explicitly.
All right so to finish off now
let's talk about problems that may arise
when extending classes and implementing interfaces
where there is overlap of variables and methods
other than the default method.
So for this one we need another class created
in our project,
ambiguous examples.
All right so there's our code.
You can see firstly,
we've got an interface called confusable.
It's got a constant field called name and a method,
an abstract method named confused.
We've got an abstract class defined
further on down called confused.
It's got a constant field called name
and also an abstract method called confuse.
Noting that it's got to say method signature
as the interface;
however, it's got a different cell return type
and down here in our class,
it implements the confusable interface for now
and has a concrete method confused
that overrides the interfaces method
and this method prints out the field name
without any kind of qualifier
and all of this works because we can run
and there's the airport.
The method confused returns confusable
and obviously it's getting that from the interface.
Let's now change our class definition.
The moment implements confusable,
we're gonna change that to also extends confused
and you can see that by doing that
I've introduced a compiler error
in the concrete method confuse on the name variable
and if I hover over that,
the reference to labour is ambiguous.
Both confuse dot name and confusable dot name match.
Probably our class identifies more closely with its parent
than the interface.
So what I'm going to do is qualify
which name we wanna use in the method
and I can come down here and put in confused
to clarify that and obviously the air,
the compiler error has disappeared.
Notice that the declaration of the confuse method itself
satisfies both contracts
for the abstract methods on the interface
and the abstract class.
You see them there.
So with that's said
what happens if we change one of the methods slightly?
So I'll come out too confused here
and it's got abstract object confused.
Let's change that to be an integer object.
Something we've got a compile error down here,
which we'll click on to get to.
Hovering over that.
The confused method in ambiguous examples
clashes with confuse in confused
attempting to use incompatible return type.
So at the moment we're trapped.
We cannot satisfy both requirements
because the returned types have no subclass in common.
Remember that you're overridden method
must have the same return type or a more specific one.
So we're going to undo that change.
Back to object again and the code is now valid again.
So the last two videos have been pretty full-on
and we've covered compiler differences
when casting to an interface versus casting to a superclass.
We covered inheriting duplicate methods
from multiple interfaces.
We covered extending interfaces.
We covered using an abstract class implementing an interface
and we also covered ambiguous references and method clashes
which may occur because of multiple inheritance of type
which Java supports.
All right, so we'll end the video here.
Coming up next is some quiz questions
and then in the next video after that,
I'll start comparing abstract classes to interfaces
in a little more detail.
See you in the next video.